= Rakefile for GATK workflows (July, 2011)

Author:: Hiroyuki Mishima (missy at be.to / hmishima at nagasaki-u.ac.jp)
Copyright:: Hiroyuki Mishima, 2011
License:: the MIT license. See the LICENSE file.

= Rakefile for the GATK 'better' workflow
A rakefile for the Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) workflow.

This workflow is optimized for GenomeAnalysisTK-1.0.5974.

see GATK web page http://www.broadinstitute.org/gsa/wiki/index.php/The_Genome_Analysis_Toolkit .

This workflow describes "Better - sample-level realignment with known indels and recalibration". see http://www.broadinstitute.org/gsa/wiki/index.php/Best_Practice_Variant_Detection_with_the_GATK_v2#Better:_sample-level_realignment_with_known_indels_and_recalibration .

= Workflow overview
# Input file is *.sam.gz
# => *.sort.dedup.bam
# => *.sort.defup.realig.bam
# => *.sort.dedup.realig.recal.bam
# => *.snv.vcf and *.indel.vcf (each vcf file is for single sample)
# => *.snv.filtered.vcf and *.indel.filtered.vcf

== How to run
* Rake dry-run: rake -n
* Rake run: rake
* Pwrake dry-run: pwrake NODEFILE=nodefile -n
* Pwrake run: pwrake NODEFILE=nodefile
* details of Pwrake: see https://github.com/masa16/Pwrake/ and http://bioruby.open-bio.org/wiki/Workflows

== Package
Workflow directories consist of the folloing files:
* Rakefile - main rakefile
* Rakefile.invoke.* - refered from Rakefile. Command-line options of tools to be invoked are described in this file.
* Rakefile.helper - helper methods simplifying Rakefile descriptions.
* nodefile - just contains a line "localhost 16"

= Copyright and license
copyright (c) Hiroyuki Mishima, 2011. See the LICENSE file.
